Thus far we used
css, css transitions and animations to animate our elements in and out and to animate the
transition between two elements.
We can also use javascript because with javascript, we can of course also influence the style position
and much more of such element or anything we want basically.
Now vuejs allows us to also listen to certain events,
this transition element, this transition element vuejs ships with emits.
So this transition component we wrap our elements in emits some events at certain points of time and
we can listen to these events to execute our own javascript code.
Now the missing piece is to know which events are emitted at which point of time
and here we see a similar pattern as with the css classes.
We add our element and then we remove it and upon adding, we first have the beforeEnter hook,
this is kind of comparable to the enter class being attached for one frame.
Then right after we get the enter hook, this is where we would then typically play our animation, then
we have after enter,
this is new and this executed once the animation finished and important note, you can combine all that with
css classes,
you can also execute some other code in each of these hooks so that it's perfectly possible. And we have
the after enter cancelled hook which is called whenever we kind of say change the condition which
would add the element before the animation finished.
Well and that here, we get the same hooks for leaving it or for moving it out, we got before leave,
leave, after leave and after leave cancelled,
these are the hooks we've got available.
As I said, you can mix them with css, they get executed any ways. You can change the style of the element
here or do something completely different or nothing at all like we did before.
But now, let's have a look at how we can use these hooks to play a nice animation purely through javascript.